Irreligious lust is the libidinous oraise of women who [in fact] are to be abandoned.Hypocrisy is [to pretend] that one p
ossesses good qualities which one lacks, while desiring sins.

Great desire is extreme greed gone beyond the fortune of knowing satisfaction,Desire for gain is wanting to be known alwa
ys as having superior qualities.

Non-endurance is an inability to bear injury and suffering; improprietyIs not to respect the activities of a spiritual gu
ide or teacher.

Not heeding advice is not respecting counsel from those of similar practice.Intention to meet with relatives is loving at
tachment to one’s kindred.

Attachment to objects is to relate their qualities in order to acquire them.Fancying immortality is to be unaffected by c
oncern over death.

Intention endowed with making [one’s qualities] understoodIs the thought that due to the appearance of knowledge and weal
th others will take one as a guide.

Intention endowed with desire is a wish to help others motivated by desire.To be affected with harmful intent implies tha
t one wishes to harm others.

Dislike is a mind that is unsteady, desiring union is a dirtied mind,Indifference is a body without effort, a laziness of
lassitude.

Being affected is the influence on body and colour by afflictions,Not wishing for food is explained as discomfort due to 
gorging.

A very weak mind is taught as timidity and fear,Longing for desires is to desire and seek after the five attributes.

Harmful intent toward others arises from nine causes: having senseless qualmsAbout oneself, one’s friends and foes in the
past, present and future.

Sluggishness is non-activity due to a heavy mind and body,Sleep is slumber, excitement is a lack of physical and mental p
eace.

Contrition is repentance for bad deeds which arises afterwards from grief,Doubt is to be of two minds about the truths, t
he Three Jewels and so forth.

[Householder] Bodhisattvas abandon the above, while those who keep a [monk’s] vows strictly abandon more.Freed from these
defects the virtues are easily observed.

Briefly the virtues observed by Bodhisattvas areGiving, ethics, patience, effort, concentration, wisdom, compassion and s
o forth.

Giving is to give away completely all one’s wealth, ethics is to help others,Patience is to forsake anger, effort, to del
ight in virtues;

Concentration is unafflicted one-pointedness, wisdom is ascertainment of the meaning of the truths,Compassion is a mind t
hat savours only mercy and love for all sentient beings.

From giving there arises wealth, from ethics happiness, from patience a good appearance, from [effort in] virtueBrillianc
e, from concentration peace, from wisdom liberation, from compassion all aims are achieved.

From the simultaneous perfection of all those seven [virtues] is attainedThe sphere of inconceivable wisdom the protector
ship of the world.

Just as the eight levels of Hearers are explained in their vehicle,So are the ten Bodhisattva stages in the Mahāyāna.

