Intent on serving your parents, respectful to the principles of your lineage,Using your resources well, patient generous,
with kindly speech, without divisiveness and truthful,

Through performing such discipline for one lifetime you will become a king of gods;As such you will do still more, theref
ore observe such practices.

Even three times a day offer three hundred cooking pots of foodDoes not match a portion of the merit acquired in one inst
ant of love.

Though [through love] you are not liberated you will attain the eight virtues of love,Gods and humans will be friendly, e
ven [non-humans] will protect you,

You will have pleasures of the mind and many [of the body], poison and weapons will not harm you,Effortlessly will you at
tain your aims and be reborn in the world of Brahmā.

If you cause sentient beings to generate the aspiration to enlightenment and make it firm,Your own aspiration will always
be to enlightenment firm like [Meru] king of mountains.

Through faith you will not be without leisure, through good ethics you will have good migrations,Through becoming familia
r with emptiness you will be unattached to all phenomena.

Through not wavering you will attain awareness, and intelligence through thinking; through respectYou will realise what t
he docrtines mean, through their retention you will become wise.

Through not causing the hearing and the giving of the doctrine to be obscuredYou will company with Buddhas and will quick
ly attain your wish.

Through non-attachment you will learn what [the doctrines] mean, through not being miserly your resources will increase,T
hrough not being proud you will become chief [of those respected], through enduring the doctrine you will attain retenti
on.

Through giving the five essentials as well as non-fright to the frightenedNo evil will there be to harm you, of the might
y you will be the best.

Through offering many lamps at reliquaries and elsewhereAnd oil for lamps in dark places your divine eye will open.

Through offering bells and instruments for the worship of reliquariesAnd elsewhere drums and trumpets, your divine ear wi
ll open.

Through not relating others’ mistakes and not talking of their defective limbs,But protecting their minds, you will gain 
knowledge of the minds of others.

Through giving conveyances and shoes, through serving the feeble and throughProviding teachers with youths you will acqui
re the skill to create magical emanations.

Through acting to promote the doctrine, remembering its books and their meaning,And through stainless giving of the doctr
ine you will remember your continuum of lives.

Through knowing thoroughly, correctly and truly that no phenomena inherently exist,You will attain the sixth clairvoyance
that extinguishes all contaminations well.

Through cultivating the wisdom of reality which is the same [for all phenomena] and is moistened with compassionFor the s
ake of liberating all sentient beings, You will become a Conqueror with all the excellences.

Through various pure aspirations your Buddha Land will be purified,Through offering gems to the King Of Subduers you will
give out infinite light.

Therefore knowing how actions and their effects agree,For you own sake help beings always and so help yourself.

Chapter Three: The Collections for Enlightenment

